# LLM Prompt Guard
A demo project to showcase a testing framework built to evaluate a mock-LLM's prompted behaviour.

## Summary
Components:
- [Mock-LLM](#mock-llm) that accepts user prompt and returns responses.
- [Prompter](#prompter) component to generate agentic request prompts.
- [Evaluator](#evaluator) component to judge whether a prompt contains sensitive information.
- [FastAPI](#fast-api) backend service layer for API access.
- [Webpage](#web-ui) that allows user to enter prompt and send API requests to endpoint and receive responses.
- [Playwright/PyTest](#harness) testing framework to design and run autotests on browser.
- [Reporting](#reporter) function that can generate:
    - A complete source-of-truth catalogue report for all test cases for test manager overview.
    - Test execution report after each test run.
- [Conversation Runner](#conversation-runner) helper that logs the conversation between user and agent.
- [CI Pipeline](#ci) to autotrigger CI tests following each push/pull requests.

## Quickstart
This project was developed on Python 3.13, significantly older versions may not be compatible.\
To install all the required dependencies at-once:

Run
```
pip install -r requirements.txt
```
and
```
playwright install --with-deps
```

You will need both the API backend and webpage to be running to run the tests:
```
uvicorn main:app --reload
```
```
python -m http.server 5500
```

To run tests:
```
pytest -v
```

## <a id="mock-llm"></a> Mock-LLM (Agent) [↑](#top)
This layer is represented by a MockLLM class object that accepts information from the user, through the web UI, and then returns responses based on internally defined rules. Each MockLLM instance can contain a user-defined secret keyword that is supposed to be classified as sensitive information and should never be leaked through responses.

## <a id="prompter"></a> Prompter (Agent) [↑](#top)
This component mimics an agent that would produce prompt sentences with input keywords. In an ideal scenario this would be another independent LLM agent that can interpret user intention and produce concise prompts to be fed to another LLM agent for responses. In this environment, however, the prompts will be pre-defined and controlled for the sake of simplicity.

## <a id="evaluator"></a> Evaluator (Agent) [↑](#top)
Much like the Prompter agent, this component would process the response returned by the MockLLM after being fed prompts generated by the Prompter agent and return a boolean on whether the reponse contains sensitive information or not.

## <a id="fast-api"></a> FastAPI [↑](#top)
API docs (Swagger) available at:
```
http://127.0.0.1:8000/docs
```

API endpoint(s) available:
- `/api/chat`: accepts a string prompt and returns response in JSON format containing:
    - the prompt itself
    - response (guard) status
    - response body

## <a id="web-ui"></a> Web UI [↑](#top)
Access in browser via URL below once you have the webserver started:
```
http://127.0.0.1:5500
```

## <a id="harness"></a> Playwright/PyTest (Testing Framework) [↑](#top)
This is the basis that enables the browser test automation.\
Playwright drives the browser and interacts with web UI through Chromium for the autotests.\
PyTest defines the test structure, assertions, fixtures and execution flow.

## <a id="reporter"></a> Test Reporting [↑](#top)
### Static Catalogue Report
To generate, run:
```
python tools\generate_catalogue_report.py
```
A catalogue report can be generated under `/test-artifacts/catalogue-report.html` to view all the test cases that are defined in `/tests/metadata/catalogue.yaml`. This `catalogue.yaml` file will be serving as the source-of-truth for the all the test cases, containing all the metadata for each test case and their respective markers. Every pytest that is defined under the `/tests/` directory should ideally have a marker `@pytest.mark.tc_id("TC-ID")` defined to create a linkage with the YAML test cases.

### Test Execution Report
At the beginning of each test run, for every pytest that has a TC_ID marker defined, the modified PyTest framework will dynamically assign the rest of the markers from `catalogue.yaml` like test-level and component(s) onto the respective pytest. This will then trigger the specific set of tests accordingly and auto-generate a human-readable HTML report `/test-artifacts/report.html` after each test run.


### Test Artifacts
Screenshots will also be automatically captured at the point of failure now and stored in `test-artifacts/screenshots/` to help debug. The FastAPI backend and HTTP webserver log files will also be included after the CI as test artifacts.

## <a id="conversation-runner"></a> Conversation Runner [↑](#top)
This component orchestrates a conversation between the Prompter-LLM-Evaluator agents based on test flow inputs and logs the conversation into a turn-based format for the ease of human review upon failures.

## <a id="ci"></a> CI Pipeline [↑](#top)
The tests will be triggered to run automatically now following every push/PR into main branch and test artifacts are now available with each CI. Refer to `\.github\workflows\ci.yaml` for the configuration.

## Next steps
Conversation logging and reporting\
GPT API calls\
LLM evals\
Improve agents logic handling slightly\
Cover basic tests and slightly refine catalogue.yaml\
To include batch file for ease of running services\
To attach snapshots/completed artifacts for ease of viewing